---
layout: post
title:  "Eating Disorder Intensive Outpatient Program"
date:   2016-05-16 07:10
categories: jekyll update writing
---

I  

A group of women  
seated at *Mel’s Diner*,  

staring blankly at  
the retro paraphernalia:  

photos of Chevrolets, milk-  
shakes, checkered barstools—  

black-and-white reminders  
of American over-  

consumption. Our waiter,   
a Latino man   

notably missing from the classic   
American iconography, hands us   

hard-covered, spiral-bound   
books he calls menus.  

*Don’t rethink this, stick to your plan,*   
our therapist guides us.   

I look up and can see    
we’ve already lost one—  

Mary’s face is lifeless,   
the pale color of doubt  

staring at the “Sandwiches” section.  
She looks up:  

*Can I switch to the grilled turkey?*  
asking nervously.  

Who speaks? Mary or   
her disordered mind?   

The difference between   
grey & gray,  

whispering & talking   
quietly.  


What it’s like to worship   
The Right Thing &   

to learn all along   
you’ve been praying to   

The Right Thing’s   
shadow.   

A question of origin,   
for which society still has no answer.  


II  

I strain to make small-talk   
while we wait for the food   

to arrive, end up talking   
about herding   

dogs and Hillary Clinton.   
Frustrated,   

I sit on my hands,   
still holding onto   

my own version of   
The American Dream:  

*freedom is needing nothing.*  

For years I have led   
a rebellious hunger-  

strike against society’s   
conflation of   

more and better,  
all the while not seeing   

my own conflation of   
mind and body.   

When the meal comes,   
I bow down and eat.  


III

Deed is done.   
Defeated, inflated  

we leave behind    
our cleaned plates—  

oval-shaped, the size   
of bathroom mirrors (*proportion     

distortion or metaphor*).     
Crumpled and stained   

napkins, greased placemats and   
soiled silverware.   

That sinking feeling of shame  
we will learn to label   

satisfaction.  
Outside the sun is blinding—  

my eyes adjusting,  
my insides cramping.   

The walk-sign flashes   
WALK.  

I think about photosynthesis,   
catalytic converters,   

America’s addiction   
to fossil fuels.   

The need for life-  
sustaining energy,   

my undeniable pulsing   
blood-stream.   

I take a step,   
one after another.   

How the body is   
made to move,   

move forward   
with such ease.  


