---
layout: post
title:  "Algae-filled bathtub: a game"
date:   2016-07-31 10:32
categories: jekyll update writing
---
On TV, the man shuts the door, opens it, shuts it again and Twitter explodes. *He shouldn’t have opened it to begin with.* Instead of putting my dirty bedsheets into the laundry machine, I put them in my closet. Like a game of Memory except that no cards have an exact match. When I pick flowers, I try to find ones that look lonely. A backpack without straps—akin to the situation in Apartment 302. Look, the envelope had no address so I assumed it was mine. It was only 20 years later that I realized my name wasn’t *John*. If I made you eat a sandwich in less than 30 seconds, would you try? It isn’t that I can’t, it’s that I don’t want to. The mermaid, with the blue hair and the thin legs. When I was 11 years old, a boy called me *"sassy"* and I have never lived it down. To write is to move your fingers in an inconsistent pattern for an extended period of time. A dresser drawer that refuses to close neatly. I like to collect old keys, walk around with a jangle and pretend I am a janitor. Would you rather swim in an algae-filled pond or an algae-filled lake? Another option is an algae-filled bathtub. The trashman no longer could distinguish between the scent of a rotten banana and a tulip – does that make you feel sad? Like when my sister put my stuffed animal in the dryer. The first sign of a sick cat is the tumor. A standing ovation or a competition to see? Please stop pinching my stomach, I can promise you this isn’t a dream. Sweep it under the rug and call it a day. Just wait until the balloons drop!